We're in Ephesians chapter two, verses one through seven.
Let's read our passage and then we'll go verse by verses.
This is where we ended a couple of weeks ago.
We'll actually recap that while we're going through, but Ephesians chapter two, verse one, and you, he made alive, who were dead and trespasses in sin.
in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, and the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience.
Among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh, and of the mind and whereby nature, children of wrath, just as the others.
but God who is rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us even when we were dead and trespasses made us alive together with Christ by grace you've been saved and raised up raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus that in the ages to come he might show
the exceeding riches of His grace in His kindness towards us in Christ Jesus.
and truly what kindness He has shown towards us, given us His only begotten Son.
Today in our passage, He's going to be showing us an amazing past, present, and future, our past life, dead in trespasses and sin.
Present today, He's made us alive.
Our future is that we're seated in the heavenly places with Him, and He's going to show us kindness and be pouring out His kindness continually for all of eternity to come.
And He writes these words, put these words for us.
And so, Father, I thank you.
You've given us a word.
You preserved the word.
We thank you.
You made us alive and let the word come alive, Lord.
I know that I can get in the way of it because I'm a man.
Let me be removed and just let the word of God, which is living and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword.
Do what it was designed to do.
Pierce our hearts.
Change our minds.
Tell us who you are and what you think of us.
give us that boldness that we can come before the throne of grace, and we can ask you anything in the name of Jesus, and you'll tell us what you want us to do.
And I know there's an evil one.
He's been here already.
He camps out here.
He's the son.
He's the prince and power of this air, and he wants to disrupt all these things, whether it's the technology and the streaming and the podcasting.
And right here, the very word
Let him not have a way.
Let us lean in and hear what you have to say in your name.
Amen.
And hey, would you guys do me a favor?
Would you kind of lean to the edge of your seat right now?
You know, I said lean.
Could you just lean forward, lean a little towards me?
And all right, good.
Because I'm going to meet with some pastors this week.
And I want to tell them that I had a bunch of sinners on the edge of their seat.
I'm sorry, I don't know where that came from.
But anyways, God's word, he's so good.
And I just love this word.
And back to verse one as we, what a passage.
And you, he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sin.
He made us alive.
We're living.
This is amazing, the life that he has given us.
And he's gonna form this, he's been forming this.
Chapters one through three is doctrine, what God has done for us.
And chapters four through six is duty, what he then calls us on to do.
And you can never walk in the way of the Lord and do the things that God's called us to do if we don't settle in and camp out on who he is and what he's done for us.
And so he's speaking to us, made you alive.
We're going to talk more about being made alive, but he's making this point.
He made us alive.
Life is only found in one place, Jesus Christ.
And then it always has to be tagged with him crucified because life only comes through the lamb that was slain, the crucifixion of God who came down to take our sin away and our trespasses.
And so this starts with
we were dead in trespasses and sin.
And so, I mean, even some great commentators and Greek scholars you read and they go, you know, differentiating between sin and trespasses and what's the difference of those.
And I don't think it struggles at all, especially as we see how these words were used in their time.
And sin simply means to miss the mark.
One of my things that I love to do, and thankfully I don't have to be good at it, and to put meat on the table, is I love to shoot bow and arrow.
There's just something therapeutic about it.
The thumping noise.
That's usually, you hear a thump if you hit the target.
A lot of times, especially in the early beginning of learning to shoot a bow, I heard, I go, that arrow's lost.
Who knows where that one went, but I missed a target by three or four feet.
But sin is from an old English word and they would use the old English word to mean you missed the mark.
So if you were shooting bow and arrow and you missed the bullseye, the comment that would be made with the people you were shooting with is you sinned.
It's a perfect application as God has given us his commandments
31,102 verses.
We don't have to guess and wonder what he calls us to do.
He's given us his holy law, the 10 commandments of the direction of here's bullseye, hitting the mark.
And then he even boils it down to make it not even love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind and soul and love your neighbor as yourself.
He even takes the 10 and puts it into two.
And then he puts it into love the Lord with all your heart, mind and soul, puts it down into even one.
So we know what the bullseye is, and he'll use the Ten Commandments, as we're told in Galatians 3, that the law was given to us as a schoolmaster.
So now we even know what God's standard is, we know what we failed, we'll know that I've broken his holy law and I'll have a need for a savior.
So here we go, you miss the mark, that's sin.
But I find it interesting as I ponder these things, and you can kind of see the picture of the dartboard.
Does it look odd to you?
It should.
Notice how big the bullseye is.
You know, if you shoot darts, or if you've ever seen a dartboard, it's the smallest little red circle on there, but this one shows this big one, and it kind of is a fitting picture for me because you know what I find the world does?
Here's the law of God.
Here's bullseye.
And so the world goes, well, I can't hit that.
That's impossible.
So you know what I'll do?
I'll just make the bullseye bigger.
And so if I make the bullseye bigger, then I can say I'm in the mark and I've made my mark with this bullseye and this target.
Let's change what is considered
the standard of God.
And so there we have that miss the mark.
And then we come to well what is trespasses?
That's not hard, right?
We see the signs all around us.
No trespassing.
There's a sign, there's a fence or there's some type of barrier there that says no trespassing.
Do not enter into these things.
And so here's what the two differences that happen with that is we can miss the mark of the holiness of God and then the holiness of God of here's your standard.
And I may or may not have known it exactly and may have
Missed it and not even truly known that I was off the mark of those but trespassing that's a whole different thing Trust passing becomes very very clear in that.
I know this is do not enter I know that this is what God says I shall not do but I look at it and I go you know what?
Doesn't matter I'm going to go there and do this Regardless of what the word of God says
I find it, I'm reminded of when I was in Bible college, one of the pastors, his name was Pastor John Duncan, just what a great, what a great manna.
Man of God, have you ever seen the movie, The Jesus Revolution?
He got saved in the Jesus Revolution.
He was hippie all the way through and through.
He was the epitome of that movie.
He ended up at Calvary Chapel, Costa Mesa, and one of the hippies, they got saved.
One of the hippies, like a great glory, who then went out and planted a Bible church.
He had that whole beach thing going on, you know, with the long hair and the flip flops.
And he was one of my teachers in Bible college.
And I got to connect with him and some of the other pastor teachers at the Bible College, because I was actually closer to the age of the teachers than I was to the students.
When I went to the Bible college, I was like 15 years older than all the students.
They all came right out of high school.
They were getting ready for their next thing in life.
And so they do high school.
Their parents would send them, hey, after high school, go to the Bible college for two years and then go do whatever God calls you to do, whether it's missions or continuing on to become something more into the ministry.
Or maybe you want to go to the university and start a career in engineering or whatever it may be.
Well, so I was older than the students, and I was actually closer
and Pastor John maybe was 10 years older than me.
And so we would have like a great relationship.
We'd do lunch or hit share, you know, just some things more deeper with me and talk about ministry and all those type of things.
And like I said, just a cool guy and partly the age, which I'm digressing now, but, you know, speaking of
It was just kind of funny as you think of age and being older.
I was older in Bible college.
Now I'm a little older than I was in Bible college, obviously.
So this blonde-haired, blue-eyed Christian woman, I call her my wife.
On Saturday, she says to me, there's a lot of snows coming and, you know,
And she gives me that hint, like you're not as young as you used to be.
And she goes, there's the landscapers in the community.
They're offering to shovel driveways during the snowstorm, to which I respond like every man in this room would.
Ain't happening.
I shovel my own snow.
I don't need someone to shovel in my snow, especially when you have young
adults living in your home as well called children.
I said, it ain't happening.
She gave me that hint, you're not as young as you used to be.
And she goes, let me at least reach out to them, find out how much.
And then I'll send you a text and let you know what I find out.
I said, OK, fine, but it doesn't matter.
Well, so a little while later, she sends me a text and she says, they said they would
Shovel initially, the first two inches, and then come back every two inches thereafter and shovel, and $60 for every two inches that they shovel.
Now, we just did 12 inches, imagine, do that math, right?
But $60 for two inches, then $60 every next two inches.
Her next text to me says,
Looks like you're going to have to risk life and limb.
So much for that.
But Pastor John, like I said, Jesus' revolution got that whole California thing just like his wife.
She was the California girl.
And before I tell the story that I mean to tell the story, just something that was so powerful of a man such as him.
is his wife, even at a young age, had reached a debilitating illness.
And they could no longer live that life, the freedom that they have.
But he said, ma'am, my wife never stopped living, though.
She would pass early, he goes.
But she would never stop living.
And we grew up in California, and this and that, he goes, I would
I take her, so at the time she's alive, he goes, I take her and I go from my shortboard surfing to my longboard surfing.
I take her to the beach and I put her on the board, lay her on the board because she can't
You know, stand with me.
I lay her on the board.
Her head is at the very tip of the surf board.
And then I stand on top of her, my feet on both sides of her and she's in the middle and he goes and we surf out.
And then I ride that wave in no matter how big it is.
She's got this.
birds, you know, she is eye to eye with that wave and it's splashing in her face.
And he goes, we're surfing.
He was an awesome surfer, of course.
He goes, and I'm just pulling the, I'm just pulling those waves.
I, you know, surf all the way through.
Then we loop back out and I take her back out and then we do it all over again.
He goes, it's so awesome.
He goes, cause I'm surfing and she's laying there and she is still that.
girl that I grew, you know, married young in my life and she's just screaming all the way and joy and laughter as they're riding the waves and she's just absorbing and taking every last, you know, drop of the wave that they would have.
And he goes, oh, it's glorious.
I love surfing with my wife even now.
And you know what?
It just, when he tells me that story and obviously that story is well over 30 years old in my
in my mind and I think about those things of we have been given church the greatest gift it's called life we are alive and living and I know there's sometimes the pain and struggles of situations in our life and health and all those things but here we are given the most precious gift of life
I just want to encourage us.
He's made us alive.
We're spiritually alive.
He's given us the breath to come here and enjoy one another and to live a life today and have a tomorrow in life.
I just want to encourage you, appreciate the life that you got.
It is so easy to start missing life.
We're alive, but are we living?
And I tell you one of the things I have found in my life personally and that I can find in others around me is when we stop giving thanks for the life that we have, and we're more focused on the life that we don't have, if you would, the things that are pressing in against us, the things that we don't have, the things we wish we would have, and then we even forget
Just the simplicity of the thankfulness, Jesus Christ, you've given me eternal life.
When we stop giving thanks, that's when we'll stop living life.
And I just encourage us and for us to enjoy the word that he's going to put before us.
And then we get the worship at the end and give him praise for the life that we have.
Oh, the glory of it all.
Let's appreciate life.
Let's live life and let's see what God has for our lives.
Well, back to Pastor John.
He lived life and he would tell me and these type of things, but I'll never forget this story that was so fitting that he would say, um, we got saved in the Jesus revolution and we're all hippies.
We didn't have any skill set for any type of jobs.
If you saw the movie, Jesus Revolution, you know how they were living in Pastor Chuck's house and then there's like, that's it.
That's, I can't have all these hippies living in my house.
So Pastor Chuck went and bought a house and then the hippies lived in the house.
Then when they outgrew that, they went and bought another house and then the hippies lived in there.
And it's amazing when you really follow through the story, every
one of the homes had some type of leader in it, and many of those leaders then came out of that.
That's where they got their feet wed in ministry and leadership.
They went and planted churches that are still today, churches that are strong and vibrant living and the likes of it.
And he goes, so we lived in these communal type livings.
We're all Christians.
We're all enjoying that, but we still had to go get money.
We still had to make a living.
And he goes, one of the greatest jobs you'll find in California, especially at that time,
orange groves.
So we went and we worked as pickers, orange pickers.
And he goes, so we're out there.
The landowner takes us out to the orchard and says, okay,
Today, we're going to take this whole grove here, and we want to pick all the oranges that we can, put them in these crates, and then we'll pick them up later with a truck and the like.
But your job today, pick all the oranges you can, put them in these crates, and one of the advantages that John would say, and we got all the free oranges that we wanted.
You could stop at any time, eat oranges, enjoy the oranges, take as many as you wanted home and these type of things so that it was not only a pay, but there was all these oranges and then they would take some of the oranges back home to the communal living and the likes.
And then one day he says, we're in this one orange grove and he gave the speech again, pick all this orange grove, eat as much as you want, it's free, and take what you want free.
He goes, but see that one orange tree.
that has the fence around it.
He goes, do not touch that orange tree.
We're doing a special genetic testing.
And we're trying to do some cross testing with seeds and branching and these type of things to see how we could possibly grow bigger oranges and more tasteful oranges.
Something more juicy, something more sweet.
Pick all these, eat as much as you want, but do not touch that.
Orange tree he said that owner wasn't more than you know a minute down the road And we were all sitting there and we looked at each other and we go.
I wonder what those oranges taste like He goes so you can be sure He goes soon as he was out of sight I walked down jumped the fence picked an orange
Came back, we all sat on the tailgates of the truck.
I pulled out my knife, I cut it open, and I gave everybody a piece, and we all ate that orange.
And he goes, and about a minute later I looked at each other, I looked at everybody and I go, you know what guys?
We did it again.
And what a picture it is.
All the oranges you can eat, all the garden that's given to you Adam.
Anything and everything's yours, but not this one.
Do not eat, do not trespass."
And there was a clear, deliberate knowing without a doubt, thou shall not eat of this tree.
Well, here we go with the same that we see here, the difference between the sin, missing the mark, whether we know it or not, but trespassing, I knew it, and I still chose not to do it.
But I have to say this before we move on.
Back to the garden, back to this here is John 3.3.
Jesus answered and said to him, most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
How have we been made alive?
Not just living for life and the beauty of life, yes, but it's talking about we've been made alive through what is the spiritual death.
When we ate of that fruit, when we partook of that sin, we broke God's holy law.
We missed that bull's eye.
We needed to be bought back from that sin.
And that's what we'll study today.
He made us alive, though we were dead in trespasses and sin.
And here's the point that I make.
I've met plenty of people.
And maybe it's someone here today, and maybe it's somebody watching online.
Maybe it would be somebody listening to the podcast and they go,
I'm saved, but I'm not one of those born-again people.
Because they put it in the born-again fanatics.
You know, those born-again, you hear people go, I'm born-again man, those are the fanatics.
I know Jesus, I'm saved, but I'm not one of those born-again people.
I just want to say, if that's anyone here and that's how you think,
I'll say it very clearly, you are not saved.
Because you counter and contradict Jesus' very words.
John 3.3, Jesus answered and said to him, most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
We died when we partook in sin and trespasses.
We spiritually became dead.
The wages of sin, the wages all have sin.
Romans 3 23 all have sin and fall short of the glory of God.
Roman 6 23 the wages of sin is death and we died and it took Jesus Christ to come and make us alive.
through the substitution, I will take your sin for breaking my holy law, missing the bull's eye, put your trust pass on top of me and I will go to the cross and take your punishment.
And then you will come alive spiritually.
And here's what he says in our passage, to never die again.
And he speaks these beautiful words as we move on here in the verse two.
In the verse two he says, because there was,
to make verse one understand, okay, he made you live, who are dead in trespasses, and said, well, how was I dead in trespass and sin?
Well, verse two and three, he's gonna give us the unlocking of how we've been made alive in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience.
Verse three, among whom also
We all once conducted ourselves in the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind.
And we're by nature, children of wrath, just as the others.
So verse two says, which you once walked according to the course of the world.
Then we'll see that it's led by the prince and power of the air.
What's the course of the world?
It's the world through Satan setting the standard
It's a meandering.
It's a blowing where the world says to go.
That's where I went.
And if you've been safe, maybe it's time to go back to you.
Remember before you were saved.
Oh, I remember it.
Oh, this is what we're supposed to do.
Go here.
Do that.
All right.
Yeah.
That sounds like the place to go and go and do those things.
I'd go home and I'd look in the mirror at the end of the day and go empty vein.
Is this all life has?
Why am I so empty if this is what the world says is the way to go?
All my friends seem to be happy.
And I can look back now and go, you weren't.
You just put on the show as well as I did acting like we were happy, but all of us were in the same place.
This is empty in vain.
There's nothing here.
Well, you know, we can turn on CNN today or whatever station you want to look to.
And I'm not picking a political side, by the way, but we're all watching the news in Minneapolis.
There's a wrong on both sides.
Could have been done better from either side that you want to approach whatever side you want to hold, whether it's the federal government and their application or as the people that are protesting in their application.
That's not what my point is today.
But what my point is, a lot of those people are coming down because they're being told this is what you should protest against.
This is what you should rise up against.
Which is interesting to me is why don't people go and rise up and protest outside of establishments that destroy lives, produce immorality, lead families into destruction, marriages into ruin, youth heading into places they should never go and all these things.
Why isn't there a big protest down there?
But instead, this is where you go.
This is what we tell you to protest.
And people show up and go, OK, let's go protest about those things.
That's the picture that we have here.
They don't even know why they're doing it.
I remember Rodney King riots.
Maybe that's a new one for some of you.
And so that riot in LA, when that happened,
And it broke the whole city, half the city burned down through it.
Man, it wasn't that much.
But they were smashing windows and people were smashing windows and business like, what did the business have to do with it?
Smash businesses, go in, steal out of the business.
And there is a camera there filming.
And this guy comes jumping out of the window with a big TV.
And the reporter goes, stops him and goes, why are you doing this?
And the guy literally stops.
He goes, I don't know.
It was, it was like a classic place.
He's like, I don't know.
And that's some of the people who are down there protesting, right?
They don't know.
And this is what we're told to protest.
This is what we're going to do.
That's the course of the world where the world says, this is what you should, as we read, lost want to fulfill.
And then more goes, okay, I guess that's what I should do.
You know, one of the hardest things for me, but I have to do it.
is I summarize my message, hopefully every Saturday around noon.
Because I need to really, this is your message so you don't spend time telling stories about snow plowing and orchards and the likes.
I don't do so well.
But anyways, I summarize my message.
And then we tag it to the live stream.
And we tag it to our podcast so that when it hits a podcast, someone can see, OK, this is Ephesians chapter 2, 1 through 7, the title, our past, present, and future.
Amazing.
Then we summarize it.
Then we post this as well on Google, our business account.
So people looking, searching.
Uh, here's a church, you know, it's in here.
Oh, there.
Here's their Sunday message.
And, uh, this is what it's going to be about.
Well, here's what I posted yesterday around noon on our Google account.
And then it shows up on our webpage, et cetera, et cetera.
We just read verse one through seven.
It says, from dead in sin to seated with Christ in heavenly places, what a transformation
exclamation point.
This Sunday we explore Ephesians 2 1 through 7 to discover the breathtaking reality of our past, present and future in Christ.
We were once dead in trespasses and sin walking according to the world's standard, but God
We'll talk about that here in a minute, those two powerful words.
But God, those two powerful words, change everything.
Rich in mercy and great in love, He made us alive together with Christ, not only alive, but raised us up seated with Him in heavenly places.
You are God's trophy of grace, His inheritance, loved before the foundation of the world.
Here's the beautiful truth.
His kindness leads us to repentance.
Not our dwelling on failures.
God is patting a seat next to him saying, come sit with me.
For all of eternity, he wants to show you the exceeding riches of his grace.
That's not just your future.
That's your reality today.
Change the way you think, live like you're called.
You'll be made alive.
That's pretty good.
Amen.
Good summary.
post at around noon, two minutes later, two minutes later, Google sends me this.
Your post has been removed from Google.
Calvary Chapel and Arundel County, your post violates Google's content policy.
Content that violates our policy on offensive content isn't allowed.
Offensive contents may reasonably cause another to experience extreme anger, insult or disrespect.
We're taking down your post.
What part was disrespectful or insulting in what I just read you in that summary?
It is the course of the world.
It is the offensive statement, dead in trespasses and sin walking to the, according to the world's standard.
We've got handful of these.
Uh, we get them from time to time, uh, when they go and they scrape through our podcasts on YouTube.
Uh, we're pulling down.
We, you know,
We examine your podcast, and it's offensive.
It's insulting.
It's hurtful.
We're deleting it from YouTube and these type of things.
And I was talking to another Jesus Revolution guy, Pastor Bill Gallatin.
I was talking to him yesterday.
We were sending some texts in the Jesus Revolution, the Lonnie Frisbee.
Interesting.
When Bill left California to go start the church on the east coast here, it was Lonnie Frisbee who took his Bible study that he was teaching at Costa Mesa.
So Pastor Bill, I was talking to him.
We were sending some texts like we do.
I go, Google just took down my post.
And I go, I give thanks to God for Google because, you know, Google keeps
keeps me in check to make sure that I am being true to the teaching of the Word of God.
And so I know when Google takes it down, I know that we are right in line with what God's heart is for this world, word that He gives us.
So the course of the world and the world will become upset with it.
And I like as it goes on to say, the prince and power of the air,
I look at it as Satan has a radio station himself and he sends out through the airwaves here's my message 66.6 play on numbers 66.6 dial into here and I'll send you the word of what you should do and how you should behave and the way you should go in which I simply tell people you know it's real easy
how to shut down the devil's voice in his words that he wants to give you just turn that radio station off or just dial in to 97.5 Hope FM and let the word of God that speak its way through there but he sends this out and he sends these words through here that this is how you should act and this is how you should live and obviously I'm not going to make a deep all the way through verse one through seven today but
You know, we put the devil's prince and power of the air, the course of the world.
You know, we put that in drugs, alcohol, things that destroy those type of things and all that is true.
But you know, there's people dialing in the Satan 66.6.
who wear $500 suits with $100 haircuts.
And they're called boss, and they're called sir, and they're called ma'am.
They live in nice houses.
They have nice cars.
And everybody looks at them as prim and proper and got it all together.
And I'll say this, Satan doesn't care which way and how he gets someone into the spiritual death and into the eternal children of wrath that we read this.
deserving the judgment that comes from breaking God's holy law.
He doesn't care if they wear $500 suits with $100 haircuts or if they're in rags and riches and their body is rotted from all the things that they put in and the way that they lived.
And we can miss that so much that
That's the only way Satan moves, but there's so many ways Satan moves.
Anybody see that movie, God's not dead.
I rarely quote movies even though I've quoted two weeks in a row.
I don't quote movies and stay away, but hey, here's another one.
Last week when we were, or last time we were together, we talked about the hiding place, the Cory and Betsy Ten Boom, great cold weather,
a snow movie.
Well, here's one.
Maybe you've seen it called God's Not Dead.
And there's multiple ones.
I think this might have been the first one.
Hard to keep up on those things.
But they did it so well.
And in the movie, if you remember the movie, and even if you didn't see the movie, there's a power in it.
It's a brother and sister.
The sister's one of those born again.
And the brother's like, you've lost it.
The mother raised both of them in the ways of the Lord.
He's a high roller now, $500 suit, $100 haircut.
Sister's just a modest girl trying to find her way back to the Lord.
You should really go visit mom at the
nursing home because mom has dementia what's the point she won't even know that I'm there but for whatever the reason he was moved enough to go and sit with mom and in the the way they do it in the movie is so powerful and that he's sitting there across the room and they can go back and forth with you know the focus that neither they don't keep both of them in focus is all depends who's the one that's talking and the focus is on him and he sits there and she's staring off in the dementia
And he says, you prayed and believed your whole life.
Never done anything wrong.
And here you are.
You are the nicest person I know.
If you see the movie, the next statement, you know why he says this.
I am the meanest.
You have dementia.
My life is perfect.
Explain that to me.
The movie does it so well, because in a flip, the zoom and the way it does it, she comes out of the dementia for this moment.
Hey, by the way, any of you have someone in your life that has dementia?
I can tell you personally, myself, Renee can tell you too, multiple occasions where I, we, she have gone to a person who has dementia,
that we don't know whether they know Jesus Christ as Lord or Savior or not.
And I've sat down with people who had dementia and I go, I want to share the gospel of Jesus Christ with you because we know you don't have forever.
And I start to share the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And I can tell you, it's me speaking to you, not trying to tell you a story of someone I heard that I heard that I heard, that they came out of their dementia
for that three minutes that I shared the gospel.
And they fully could understand what I was saying.
It was supernatural.
It was spiritual because God wishes that none should perish, that all should seek repentance.
And I shared the gospel and they had their opportunity to make a decision yes or no at that moment.
And then when it was over, they went back into their dementia.
I've seen it with my eyes.
Renee has seen it.
We've seen it.
People on deathbed come out of
the pronouncement, they can't hear you, come out, hear it, and then go back into their moment.
So I want to just encourage you, don't ever think that it's too late and that it can't be done.
You go and you speak.
If they don't come out like what I've just said, you can be sure this, God's word is penetrating because it will not return void.
Well the movie is based off the very, they've seen the same thing I've seen.
and the movie plays it so well and he says what he says and then she comes out of the dementia for this moment becomes clear and she says and it's so fitting.
Sometimes the devil allows people to live a life free of trouble because he doesn't want them turning to God.
Their sin is like a jail cell except it's all nice and comfy and there doesn't seem to be any reason to leave.
The door is wide open until one day time runs out and the cell door slam shut and suddenly it's too late.
Oh, it's so perfect.
And the way they played it and it shocks, you know, pierces him in his $500 suit and his $100 haircut.
And then immediately, and that's that corner picture, she turns to him and she goes back into dementia and she goes, I'm sorry.
Who did you say you were?
Oh, so well played.
But what a picture is the course of the world, the prince and pyre of the year.
And people think it's some extreme thing of drugs and alcohol and a life that's ruined.
And yet here, many people, they got it all and wonderful.
And now along the line, they're perishing.
But he comes and he made us alive.
And then verse three goes on to say, and we'll just kind of read through where we're at here today.
Among whom also, we all once conducted ourselves to the lust of the flesh, and that's the fulfilling of the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and where I, by nature, children of wrath, just as the other.
Again, the prince of power there, tell us how to think, tell us how to live.
Still sends his message out to even the Christian believers today, and how we once were bought into it.
Here's what the mind's telling me to do, therefore I should.
But here's the beauty of what
the Lord is bringing to us.
Children of wrath sounds like, you know, being wrathful.
I'm the meanest person, but actually what it's meaning in the context here is we were destined for wrath because the wages of sin is death.
He's coming and telling us this glorious beautiful promise.
You were destined for wrath and I showed up and I rescued you.
You were dead in trespasses and then you were spiritually dead.
You were on your way to a grave that had no escape, but I came and I lifted you up.
I put my hand down and lift you up.
And as we'll read before we finish, I lifted you all the way up.
Now you're seated with me.
As I wrote in my summary, it's like a literally patting the chair.
You ever do that with a child or with somebody you love?
Come here.
I want to sit next to me.
I saved this for you.
I want you next to me in a good way.
And this is what the Lord, come here.
I want you sitting next to me.
We just read, seated in the heavenlies, rescued from darkness into the marvelous light.
Verse four, I could go on.
I know you can, Ray.
Verse four, but God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love to which he loved us,
You want to do something fun that's enjoyable to go back and look through.
You can do it in your daily journal along the way, but if you got a journal or whatever you do, or even you just type them out somewhere, write a little journal part that's its own place that's titled But God.
And then, when you have But God moments, go to that journal and write down But God.
Write down the date and you write down what only God could do.
I thought it was over.
I thought all was lost.
I thought it was hopeless.
The situation I was in on February 1st, 2026.
But God showed up.
Two of the most powerful, beautiful words.
I thought I had blown it and there was no recovering.
But God.
Or I thought what looked like total ruin in my financial situation.
showed up and provided away.
I thought that person would never come to Jesus Christ and my heart was empty and thought that they'll never hear what I have to say but God showed up and I got to share Christ with them.
Oh, the beauties of these word but God.
Make yourself a journal that puts those words but God.
And it says that he's rich.
Our father is rich.
That means he lacks nothing.
The checkbook of heaven as Charles Spurgeon calls it, is open for us.
Mercy and grace, he's rich in mercy and grace.
Mercy means not getting what you deserve.
Grace means getting what you don't deserve.
Mercy, we all deserved wrath because we are children of wrath.
But instead of getting what we deserved, he gave us something we didn't deserve.
grace and now not only am I not gonna bring the wrath that you deserve I'm gonna make you a son I'm gonna make you a daughter I'm gonna give you the power of the but God in your life and I'm gonna say come up and sit next to me and live and be free in the power of life that I give you which makes me think if I'm being conformed into the image of Jesus Christ and being transformed and there's a God who says
Come up here, sit next to me.
Let me give you my lavish love.
Let me show you my kindness the next couple of verses.
Let me give you mercy and let me give you grace.
I have to ask myself and ask you who today qualifies for that in your life.
They deserve no mercy because what they've done, what they said to you,
and that you give them mercy.
You know what?
You deserve my wrath.
You deserve a lashing of my tongue for these type of things.
But instead you go, I'm not going to give them that wrath.
I'm going to give them mercy.
In fact, then I'm even going to give them grace.
I'm going to let them know, listen.
And you extend to them something they totally don't deserve.
I'm going to say a kind word to you.
I'm going to send you this cake.
this letter, whatever it may be.
Oh, what a power it is when we get to be like Him and live like that.
Well, verse five, six, and seven, time to wrap this, worship Him next, give Him thanks for what He's done.
Even when we were dead in trespasses, He made us alive together with Christ.
By grace you've been saved.
Verse six,
and raised us up together made a seat together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus not only saved but brought into the beautiful presence of the Lord.
And then verse seven comes and says to us that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness towards us in Christ Jesus.
We talked of our past.
We were once dead.
We talked of our presence.
We've been made alive.
And then he talks about this future in verse seven, the ages to come, which I believe is now as well, because he's timeless.
It might show us the exceeding riches, the lavish riches of his grace in his kindness towards us.
Oh, the kindness.
What amazing kindness.
that He's given us.
You know what I think?
One of the marvels of heaven is going to be, because I can't imagine how's this get any better.
I'm sitting with you in the heavenly places in heaven for all of eternity, rescued from darkness, put into this marvelous light.
Don't even remember my sin, put as far as the east is from the west, buried in a sea with a sign, no fishing next to it, and all these type of things.
And then the exceeding riches of His kindness.
is that we will look at each other over and over, us.
This doesn't end here.
It doesn't end here.
We will all see each other as clearly as we see each other right now in heaven.
We're going to see our faces, whatever they look like.
Looking forward to that new one.
If someone keeps reminding me, you're not as young as you used to be.
Anyways, new bodies,
But we'll know each other.
We'll see each other.
And we're going to look at each other and go on.
That was amazing grace.
The kindness of God.
Saved.
We will spend eternity looking at one another's going.
Look at the trophy of grace.
that He's done, that He's rescued us.
And we are still here sitting, and that will never change for it will be all of eternity because God who is rich in mercy because of His great love, which He loved us.
And that's the whole operation of God as I close.
He operates out of His nature, 1 John 4-8, in His nature,
is love, for God is love.
Everything that emanates from him, his grace is based on his unconditional love.
His mercy is based on his unconditional love.
Of course, that brings me back to, I want to be like you.
Make me that type of unconditional love that everything that operates out of me, the kindness is the mercy and the grace is operating out of the love that I have because of what you've done for me.
We're going to spend all of eternity looking at one another going trophies of grace.
Oh Lord, you're so kind that you would rescue us.
I bless you, Lord.
And I thank you for the word that you gave us that you made us alive.
We were dead in trespasses and sin.
Lord, you made us alive and now you've said, come, sit next to me.
We are seated in the heavens.
That is a done deal.
That place is reserved for us and there's nothing that can take that away from us.
And oh, the beauty of that, and it's your kindness that leads to repentance.
You tell us in Romans.
And so Lord, anything that you've spoken to us that just isn't missing, that's missing the mark,
needs to be put away, speak to our hearts.
Because Lord we don't want anything to get in that way of the beauty.
I've seen all that you are and all that you've done and all the riches of heaven that will never pass for us.
And Lord to change our hearts to be like you and rich in mercy and love all operating out of the love that has been given to us because of what you've done for us.
And Lord may we live life
thankful for the life that you've given us, the breath that we have today to live and to love.
Tell the world that is deceived and meandering and being blown by every wind of doctrine.
But we have been settled on that rock that is immovable.
Jesus Christ, the rock of our salvation.
And Lord, settle us in on that and let us live and be thankful for the life that we've been given today.
forever.
Would you hear this worship Lord?
Let it arise.
Let it be sweet.
Let it be an incense.
A thanks for what you've done for us and what you're doing as you hold us.
Never let us go.
I bless you and I praise you in your name.
Amen.